[Poponka 0]
"プロトジークがいかにして自らの現実を乗り越えたか……
ある時、プロトジークは草むらの中で自分自身について思索していた。
水面にゆらゆらと揺られながら、
自らも水泡になろうとしていたのだ。
それでも彼は沈まず、
翼の先すら濡らしていなかった。
大勢のジークたちが、すでに流れに沿って駆け下っていた、そのちょうど時、
我らがプロトジークは、
ついに耐えきれず、まばたきをした。
ほんの小さな一点がプロトジークを救った。
それは、はるか昔に彼をこの世へ連れてきた
別のささいなものと同じだった。
こうしてプロトジークは私たちのもとに留まり、
流れゆく水に取り憑かれた
あのあまりにも現実的な泡たちの側へは行かなかった。"

[Poponka 1]
"ある時プロトジークは、
込み入っていて、
しかも教訓に満ちた旅の途上で
ビッグ・ブーと出会った。
ビッグ・ブーはその残忍さで悪名高く、
限度というものを知らず、
自分の好き放題ぶりにすら不満を抱いていた。
プロトジークはその暴君に近づき、
自分には何の不利益もなく、ただ痛烈に刺してみせようと持ちかけた。
ビッグ・ブーはしばらくその提案を吟味し、ついには同意した。
なぜ断る必要がある？
彼には何でもできたのだから。
こうしてプロトジークはビッグ・ブーを出し抜き、
その場を無傷で切り抜けた。
ビッグ・ブーはその刺し傷がもとで、まもなく死んだ……"

[Poponka 2]
"プロトジークがいかにして自らの空を見つけたか……
ある時プロトジークは飛んでいた。
それは我らズィークセンと、
せいぜい何匹かのならず者ラッファにしかできぬような飛翔だった。
あの欲深いワームどもも、
頭のねじの飛んだホーンチガーどもも、
その日のプロトジークほどには飛べなかった。
突然、一陣の風が我らの英雄を前方へ投げ出し、
そのまま天地をひっくり返した。
そしてプロトジークは、
狭い地下の巣穴からは決して届かぬ、
あの果てしない空と真正面から向き合うことになった。
空はプロトジークを包み込み、
ついには哀れな彼を背中から石の上へ叩きつけるまで飲み込もうとした。
こうしてプロトジークは空の悪意ある本性を知り、
左の翼を折ったのだ。"

[Poponka 3]
"もしプロトジークが腹の出た虫として生まれていたら、
いったい何をしただろうか……
ある時プロトジークは、
自分がなんと幸運なのだろうと思った。
自由なるズィークセンのあいだに生まれ、
生まれつき愚鈍で不器用な
あの醜い虫どもの仲間でなかったのだから。
プロトジークは想像した。
もし自分が、
臭いエスケイヴから這い出そうとし、
妙に長い触角をいやらしく擦れ合わせながら、
近くの丘をよじ登ろうとしていたらどうなるか、と。
彼は延々と這い続けるだろう、
巨大で役立たずな身体のまわりに広がる
美しい景色には目もくれず、
怪物じみた脚を機械のように動かしながら。
そしてようやく丘の頂に辿り着いたところで、
無限に広がる美しい眺めを一目も見ぬまま、
重たく鼻を鳴らしながら転げ落ち、
鋭い石の上へ叩きつけられるのだ。
しかし最後の瞬間、
プロトジークは突然思い出した。
自分は腹の出た虫などではなく、
空飛ぶジークなのだと。
そしてただちに飛び立った。
だがもし本当に虫として生まれていたなら、
その並外れた愚かさゆえに、
きっと墜ちていたに違いない……"

[Tabutask P1]
"図々しい泥棒が、リープキーからクソウォックを二つ盗んだ。
そいつを見つけ出して始末し、他の連中にも真似をする気をなくさせろ。
泥棒のメホスを吹き飛ばせ！
報酬: 5000      運: 8    周期: 3"

[Tabutask P2]
"リープキーの引っかき爪が二本、腐ってしまった。
治療には新鮮なビーブが十匹、至急必要だ。
報酬: 1300      運: 1     周期: 0"

[Tabutask P3]
"リープキーは、名の知れた盗賊がポディッシュへ向かっていると知った。
あの虫は、自分のクソウォックをすべて念入りに隠したいらしい。
念のためだ……
その盗賊を迎撃し、周期が終わる前に
エスケイヴへ入れないようにしろ。
報酬: 3000      運: 6     周期: 0"

[Tabutask P4]
"ポディッシュ周辺でスティンクホーンが大量繁殖している。
そのせいでインキュベーターとの連絡が妨げられている。
少なくとも70匹の悪臭野郎を撃ち、通信状況を改善せよ。
報酬: 1300      運: 2     周期: 0"

[Tabutask P5]
"少し前に、リープキーはクソウォックを一つなくした。
相談役は、その宝が
地下の隠れ家のどこかにあるかもしれないと考えている。
それを確かめるために、
周期が終わる前に五つの隠れ家を調べ、
そこで何が起きているのか見届けろ。
報酬: 1300      運: 2     周期: 0"

[Tabutask P6]
"リープキーは、今どきのヴァンガーが
慎重かつ忍び足で動けるのか試したがっている。
一匹のスティンクホーンも撃たずに、
周期が終わる前にインキュベーターへ到達せよ！
報酬: 2000      運: 4     周期: 0"

[Tabutask P7]
"The Eleepods have just set up a P-beam. 
They want to see if something has been lost in the world. 
The focus of the P-beam is temporarily set on your mechos. 
You have to fly from Podish to Incubator without landing, 
or else you'll ruin the tune-up! 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 4     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask P8]
"Leepky is concerned about the recent 
influx of vangers from other worlds. 
The worm fears that the scoundrels might rip off all his kusowocks at any minute. 
You have to shoot up five vangers from Glorx or Necross properly 
to cool off the aliens' curiosity! 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask P9]
"A bully recently descended on Leepky and was just spouting off about his authority. 
The scoundrel intimidated the counselor, 
not letting him say a word, 
and made him give up a CopteRig for half price. 
Leepky's fastidious nature doesn't bear such treatment. 
You have to whip the rebellious cads. 
Give any three flying vangers a good missile shower to teach the jackanapes how to behave. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask P10]
"Vangers are now reluctant to take part in the holy Eleection! 
They spend too much time 
on the ritual races of other worlds... 
You have to fire on at least four racers 
from Glorx or Necross 
so that they remember the honored Fostral! 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask P11]
"Those damned Beeboorats grabbed lots of nymbos from the shippers! 
Due to that, we are short on eLeeches in Incubator! 
Bring 12 jars of nymbos there before the end of the current cycle. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask P12]
"Leepky is looking for a reliable vanger 
to ship phlegma to him. 
He is now busy writing a poem that is important for all the pod, 
and he needs 30 jars of phlegma 
to take a poet's bath and draw inspiration.  
Reward: 2000      Luck: 7    Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask P13]
"The beebs that have bred in large numbers have started 
to gnaw on the sleeping Eleepods! 
Leepky believes that Zeexen toxick 
is a good means of dealing with this plague. 
You must bring five jars of toxick to Podish on the double! 
Reward: 7000      Luck: 5    Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask P14]
"Two main pods bet on whether 
a raffa can win an Eleection. 
We're giving you the chance to settle the issue. 
Get into a raffa and win the ritual race! 
Reward: 7000      Luck: 10    Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask P15]
"Leepky is complaining that vangers are sluggish nowadays. 
They're too dangerous to be entrusted with the tender eLeeches! 
You have to show your bravery and endurance 
and ship two eLeeches in a single Eleection... 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 12    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask P16]
"The vangers are rowdy at the moment. 
The eLeeches they bring are too often 
scared by the shooting and that whole nightmare on the road! The infants are shuddering... 
Show your skills and win the Eleection 
without using your weapons or even inserting them into the slots! 
Reward: 7000      Luck: 5    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask P17]
"Leepky will be reading a lecture in Podish soon 
about the dullness and obtuseness of Beeboorats. 
He wants to use peeperettes as physical models. 
Bring him seven peeperettes! 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 4     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask P18]
"The pod of Feenger and Leepky are having a grand occasion 
soon: the 5000th Plump-up. 
They deserve a great gift. ProtoZeek from Necross 
would be great, as Zeexen are good at making kusowocks! 
Reward: 15000     Luck: 12    Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask P19]
"The damn vangers have started forgetting the way to Podish. 
Due to this, the cycles last too long... 
This badly impairs the health of the pods! 
Show us what a tough vanger 
you are and do the honorable Eleepods a favor. 
If you manage to end our current cycle 
by bringing the appropriate cirt, 
the reward will be impressive! 
Reward: 10000     Luck: 10    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask P20]
"Beeboorats have been annoying us a lot lately. 
They need to be taught a lesson! 
Let them know who rules the Chain! 
Drive their Larva away to one of the cursed worlds 
to make them howl from the grief in their escaves... 
Reward: 50000     Luck: 15    Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask I1]
"After an abundant Plump-up, 
a lot of phlegma has piled up in Incubator 
and there's no room left for nymbos. 
You must take at least 20 jars of the mucus to Podish. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask I2]
"Feenger came up with the idea that an eLeech 
brought to Podish by the winner on a raffa 
might become a gifted tragic poet, 
which we've been missing for a long time. 
You must take part in the Eleection on a raffa! 
Reward: 7000      Luck: 10    Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask I3]
"The pod of Feenger and Leepky are having 
a grand occasion soon: the 5000th Plump-up. 
They deserve a great gift. ProtoZeek from Necross 
would be great, 
since Zeexen are good at making kusowocks. 
Reward: 15000     Luck: 10    Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask I4]
"Beebs have dug a lot of holes around Incubator. 
This causes drafts in the escave, which is dangerous for eLeech health. 
You must exterminate as many beebs as possible, and not less than fifteen. 
Reward: 1800      Luck: 2     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask I5]
"Fungi seriously hamper the Eleection racers 
as vangers are sluggish and clumsy nowadays. 
You must clear the approaches to Incubator 
by shooting 80 stinkhorns. 
Reward: 1300      Luck: 2     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask I6]
"Buzzing insects annoy Feenger, keeping him from writing a poem 
in honor of the Eleepods. 
To help him finish the job in time, 
repel 13 swarms. 
Reward: 1400      Luck: 2     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask I7]
"Leepky wants to see if today's vangers 
can move carefully and stealthily. 
You have to reach Podish 
without taking any damage to your armor 
and you must do it before the end of the cycle! 
Reward: 2500      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask I8]
"The Beeboorats' spy has stolen a tender eLeech 
and brought him to Glorx! 
It's scary to imagine what they did to him there... 
You must prosecute the scoundrel: kill him! 
Reward: 8000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask I9]
"The Eleepods found out that a vanger 
got an infection in the swamps of Necross. 
He doesn't really care, but the eLeeches might get sick. 
We need time to prepare the phlegma potion, 
so you have to stop the plague carrier from 
getting into the escave before the end of the cycle. 
Reward: 3500      Luck: 7     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask I10]
"Feenger is seeking a desperate vanger 
to carry out special missions. 
To prove your desperation, 
bombard five vangers from other worlds! 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 7     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask I11]
"The impudent Beeboorats are trying 
to capture our eLeeches and take them to Glorx as food! 
We need someone to take the bandits in hand. 
Shoot five vangers from Glorx! 
Reward: 4500      Luck: 6     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask I12]
"The saucy raffas get in the way of the racers, 
hamper the Eleection, 
and even dare to take on the vangers! 
Kill one raffa to teach the scabs 
to keep away from busy vangers! 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 3     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask I13]
"A Beeboorat spy has been hanging around Incubator lately, 
probably looking for a place to dig a tunnel. 
Now he's heading for Glorx, 
but Beeboorats are dull and forget things easily. 
You have to keep him here until the end of the cycle 
so that the spy will have nothing to tell the Beeboorats about! 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask I14]
"A bandit has been hanging around Incubator lately 
and bombarding passing vangers with missiles. 
This is clearly Beeboorat sabotage. 
Find two vangers with missile launchers and fire back 
so that the rest will stay in line and fear the Eleepods. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask I15]
"The crazy Zeexen have lured away the best vangers with their tales 
and promises of mind-boggling rewards. 
Bombard four vangers who took part in the ritual races on Necross. 
Let them think better of it and return to honorable Fostral! 
Reward: 8000      Luck: 10    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask I16]
"Through an oversight of Feenger, 
who became engrossed in writing poems, some nymbos rotted away. 
You have to bring ten chunks of nymbos right away! 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask I17]
"The less shaking and rattling an eLeech gets on his way from Incubator, 
the finer and tenderer his nature turns out to be. 
Feenger heard about a special flying mechos called Lawn Mower. 
Win an Eleection in it! 
Reward: 10000     Luck: 15    Cycles: 9"

[Tabutask I18]
"The counselor of Incubator is concerned 
about eLeeches being lost on the way to Podish... 
You have to come in third in the next Eleection 
and try to keep an eye on the first two racers... 
We hope to trace where the cult items disappear to. 
Reward: 12000     Luck: 5    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask I19]
"Feenger has found Nucleobooms 
to be good plugs for the holes in Incubator. 
This way the mold doesn't gnaw away at the walls that much. 
Get him eight Nucleobooms! 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask I20]
"Feenger has fallen into a deep inter-cycle depression. 
If his condition doesn't improve, 
he won't be able to organize the next Eleection! 
Only a choice kusowock can help him. 
Get ProtoZeek for Feenger right away! 
Reward: 20000     Luck: 15    Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask V1]
"Some impudent vanger 
brought some rotten popons from Necross. 
He managed to escape from Boorawchick somehow... 
Don't let the cad leave Glorx 
until our tough Agents arrive. 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask V2]
"Glorx has lately become a hangout "
"Exterminate three raffas to teach some respect for the Buro! "

[Tabutask V3]
"As part of our scheduled campaign 
to exalt the glory of the Buro, 
you must fire at five vangers 
from Fostral or Necross before the end of the cycle. 
Reward: 6000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask V4]
"Boorawchick wants to see how nimble the subordinates of the Buro are. 
Smash 15 beebs before the end of the cycle! 
Reward: 1800      Luck: 2     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask V5]
"Boorawchick needs five glowing beebs 
to make parade medals 
for the upcoming Buro assembly. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 3     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask V6]
"Buzzing insects hamper the work 
of the scheduled sessions of the Buro. 
Repel ten swarms so 
that they stop interfering with the process of making important decisions. 
Reward: 1400      Luck: 3     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask V7]
"One very impudent vanger has repeatedly lost his Rubbox. 
Despite all our warnings, 
he didn't reform and keeps ignoring the Manual. 
The Buro doesn't need such vangers. Destroy the useless gadder! 
Reward: 6000      Luck: 4     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask V8]
"The Buro has learned that an Agent with 
a rebellious disposition has visited B-Zone. 
Wise Boorawchick smells a plot. 
You have to stop this vanger 
from entering an escave until the end of the cycle, 
when the Buro will have taken measures 
against a possible chemical assault... 
Reward: 6000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask V9]
"Envoys of Necross at Zeekatrix's prompting 
are trying to pollute the Great Glorx with accursed toxick. 
You must put an end to this sabotage. 
Shoot up eight vangers from Necross! 
Reward: 6500      Luck: 4     Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask V10]
"The Buro's Slaves nearly blocked the last PeepShow, 
getting in the way of the Commissars, 
and the Buro got really upset about this. 
Kill one Glorx raffa 
so that the rest know their place! 
Reward: 500       Luck: 2     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask V11]
"The Buro is concerned about 
the increased use of CopteRigs by vangers. 
At this rate they will all be flying instead of serving Beeboorats. 
Fire at six flying vangers 
to remind them of the roads of Glorx. 
Reward: 5000       Luck: 6     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask V12]
"The Buro is interested 
in recruiting additional Slaves and Commissars. 
Glorx needs a better image, 
so bombard five participants of the ritual races 
on Fostral and Necross. 
Reward: 6000      Luck: 7     Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask V13]
"The Eleepods fear the Buro less and less. 
To inspire them with respect for us, 
kill any one of the participants of the ritual race on Fostral. 
Reward: 8000      Luck: 8    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask V14]
"The Buro is concerned about 
the increasing cases of Slaves participating in the Nuclear War and PeepShow. 
This is a violation of the Manual! 
To investigate this phenomenon, the Buro is assigning you 
to win a Nuclear War on a raffa. 
Reward: 8000      Luck: 10    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask V15]
"It has been reported by Agents 
that a celebration is being prepared in ZeePa. 
You need to ruin Zeephra's mood. 
Bring her an alien cirt and let her remember the Beeboorats! 
Reward: 8000      Luck: 8    Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask V16]
"Due to a global cold nip, 
the harvest of peeperettes has decreased in Ogorod. 
A triple shipment of seeds must be delivered there. 
Take 13 peeperettes there in the next PeepShow... 
Reward: 7000      Luck: 9    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask V17]
"The damned Zeexen have developed toxick, 
a poison of great power, to kill Beeboorats. 
The Buro is planning a proper response for the poisoners, 
complete with a weapon of vengeance. 
Tankacid from hMok is one of its components. 
Secure it for us. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 5    Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask V18]
"The extreme dullness of the Slaves, 
the laziness of the Commissars, 
and the disobedience of the Agents 
have wreaked havoc with Boorawchick's health. 
To restore his health, 
you must bring two fleshy eLeeches to VigBoo. 
Reward: 12000     Luck: 13    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask V19]
"Boorawchick has been kind of stressed at work recently 
and gulped a double dose of cirt to relax. 
The Buro is upset about this. 
Help Boorawchick get over this by getting as much cirt as it takes 
to complete one of the nearest cycles! 
Reward: 12000     Luck: 10    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask V20]
"The Zeexen have strengthened their influence in the Chain 
by luring many of our slaves away with their fairy tales. 
Take their Larva to one of the cursed worlds and leave it there. 
Let Necross quake in fear of Beeboorat anger. 
Reward: 50000     Luck: 15    Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask L1]
"Stylish Geer'ah has come up with a new competition for the Heroes. 
To organize it we need you to deliver 20 fresh beebs 
before the end of the cycle. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 3     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask L2]
"The Slaves have been sluggish lately. 
We don't know what they have been doing up there on the surface, 
so you have to fly 
from Lampasso to Ogorod 
without landing to check this out. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 4     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask L3]
"To reward the winners of the competition, for the glory of the Buro, 
and for the most stylish Geer'ah, we need you to bring 
one live and one dead eLeech. 
Reward: 10000     Luck: 12    Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask L4]
"Some scab recently brought a fake Valorin. 
It looks okay, but it's unfit for deeds of valor, 
so we can't use it in the stadium. Kill the jackasses 
who dared cheat Geer'ah. 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask L5]
"Stylish Geer'ah has heard from Agents about some whirlpools 
on Glorx. You must check out this information 
and dive into a whirlpool. The enemies of Glorx may be hiding there. 
Reward: 1500       Luck: 1    Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask L6]
"Geer'ah has threatened to send a vanger to the stadium. 
However, the competitions in Lampasso are currently on a break, 
so stop that vanger from getting into Lampasso before the end of the cycle 
so that Geer'ah can prepare to meet 
the new competition participant. 
Reward: 6000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask L7]
"To eliminate any obstacles 
to getting the Valorins delivered on time, Geer'ah is assigning you 
to bombard three vangers from Necross or Fostral 
so that they don't create traffic jams on the roads of Glorx. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 3     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask L8]
"The Buro has offered the Eleepods unconditional 
surrender, though because of their stupidity they have refused. 
You have to make them more amenable. 
Shoot up six vangers from Fostral. 
Reward: 4500      Luck: 4     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask L9]
"Raffas have been repeatedly attacking 
our Valorin couriers lately. This is intolerable 
and we must take appropriate measures. Exterminate five raffas. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 7     Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask L10]
"Judging from the latest reports, the time it takes Slaves 
to deliver Valorins has significantly increased during the last three cycles. 
To chastise these sluggards, shoot up eight raffas. 
Reward: 1500      Luck: 3     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask L11]
"Geer'ah sent an Agent on a mission, 
but later had second thoughts about it. 
Keep the vanger on Glorx until the end of the cycle 
so that he doesn't mess up the whole plan. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask L12]
"Geer'ah recently sent a vanger on an inspection. 
However, the dolt has lost touch with headquarters. 
Bombard any two flying vangers 
and maybe the blockhead will regain his memory. 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask L13]
"The Buro has decided to form a special troop of vangers 
to oppose saboteurs. 
The Commander who trains the troop is conditioning them to hide underwater 
so that they can ambush the enemy. 
You must stay underwater until the end of the cycle 
to prove your fitness, 
otherwise you risk adding your name to the list of saboteurs. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask L14]
"According to reports from our reliable Commissars, 
some of the others, having swallowed the bait of the Zeexen's slippery promises, 
started to participate in the ritual races of Necross. 
You must put an end to this outrage. 
Kill two racers on Necross. 
Reward: 15000     Luck: 13    Cycles: 4"

[Tabutask L15]
"For the ceremonial opening of the competitions 
and the smearing of the pedestal, Geer'ah needs 
some Eleepod phlegma. Bring 12 jars. 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask L16]
"Geer'ah is concerned that 
the Nucleoboom has been delivered bruised lately. 
That's because those dull Commissars 
batter away at each other. Well, the wheelers can go hang, 
but Nucleobooms need careful handling. 
You are assigned to win the next Nuclear War 
with empty weapon slots. 
Reward: 7000      Luck: 8    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask L17]
"To save funds, the Buro is planning 
to exchange the Commissar mechos for a raffa. To test this idea, 
the Buro is seeking a vanger 
who can win a Nuclear War against a raffa. 
Reward: 7000      Luck: 10    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask L18]
"Our Agents on Fostral often can't collect cirt due 
to the hostility of local vangers. 
Deliver some alien cirt to Leepky in Podish 
to bring him around. 
Reward: 8000      Luck: 7    Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask L19]
"Many Heroes are waiting in the Geer'ah reserve, 
all eager to take part in the competition. 
However, the stock of Nucleobooms is not enough for all of them. 
Bring 13 Nucleobooms during the next Nuclear War. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 9    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask L20]
"The Buro wants to give the scabby Eleepods a surprise. 
Deliver 12 jars of toxick to Podish. 
Let Leepky go bald and forget 
how to write his insults about stylish Geer'ah. 
Reward: 8000      Luck: 8    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask O1]
"Oboorez has found out that a commission from the Buro is going 
to stop by to check on the shrub beds. Unfortunately, the timing is all wrong: Oboorez has just started 
replanting. Delay the mechos with the commission and stop them from entering 
Ogorod before the end of the cycle so that the counselor can tidy up the garden. 
Reward: 6000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O2]
"The ever-present beebs have nibbled away some shrubs and Oboorez overlooked it 
because of his poor vision. To fulfill the plan, 
the counselor urgently needs 12 shrubs. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O3]
"Some rat has blown the whistle on Oboorez for hiding fake 
peeperettes and the Buro has given the counselor an admonition. Oboorez 
is asking you to kill the rat 
for this betrayal. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 7     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask O4]
"The lazy Slaves amuse themselves by treading down beebs near escaves 
instead of shipping Valorins and shrubs. This is not what 
the Buro raised them for. You are to squash ten beebs 
so that none remain for those slugs and for the Slaves to remember their job. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 1     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O5]
"Big swarms of insects are stopping our Jablees from flying out of Ogorod. This 
could hamper Beeboorat rituals, 
so you must repel eight swarms before the end of the cycle. 
Reward: 1500      Luck: 3     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O6]
"Some dolts have robbed an old hideout and armed themselves 
with missile launchers. The blockheads can't handle them properly 
and fire at every passer-by. Give the scoundrels what for, 
bombarding the five mechos that have missile launchers. 
Reward: 2500      Luck: 5     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask O7]
"The Commissars say that clumsy freaks from 
Fostral smashed many peeperettes 
in the last PeepShow. Glorx is no place for those worms. Fire at five 
vangers from Fostral to help them forget the way here. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 3     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask O8]
"Fatso, the chief inspector and Oboorez's best friend, 
got bogged down in Ogorod, where the inspector's mechos rusted. 
Bring four CopteRigs into Ogorod 
right away to see the guest off, 
since the stock of cirt is running out. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 6    Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask O9]
"Shipping peeperettes is a delicate task. The main thing is to avoid bruising 
or spilling them. For research, Oboorez is assigning you to reach 
Lampasso without taking any damage. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O10]
"Oboorez has some suspicions about the source of fake peeperettes: 
the Eleepods plant them in various hidden places 
to corrupt our Commissars. Check out four underwater hideouts 
before the end of the cycle. 
Reward: 500       Luck: 2     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O11]
"A Zeexen spy has filched a peeperette from Oboorez to 
take it to B-Zone for analysis. Beeboorats 
don't give up their secrets so easily; hold the thief on Glorx 
until the end of the cycle, at which point the peeperette will rot away. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O12]
"A long time ago peeperettes were shipped on special mechos 
called Queen Frogs. What an enjoyment it was to watch them go. 
Oboorez wants to relive the old days and is asking you 
to win a PeepShow on Queen Frog. 
Reward: 10000     Luck: 15    Cycles: 9"

[Tabutask O13]
"Oboorez has decided to celebrate the 1000th cycle of his service in Ogorod. 
He knows the recipe for a delicious dish, for which you must bring 
one nymbos, two jars of phlegma, and one dead eLeech. 
Reward: 500       Luck: 5     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask O14]
"Some Eleepod vangers dare to take part in 
PeepShow. The peeperettes they bring are all dirty 
and don't sprout well. Kill one vanger 
from Fostral who is taking part in a PeepShow to keep those worms away from Glorx. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 10   Cycles: 4"

[Tabutask O15]
"Oboorez is complaining that the bosses from the Buro take 
all the best from the vangers' catch and leave 
nothing for Ogorod. To cater to old Oboorez, bring him an eLeech. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask O16]
"To save funds, the Buro is planning to change 
the Commissars' mechos to raffa. To test this idea, the Buro 
is seeking a vanger who can win a PeepShow on a raffa. 
Reward: 7000      Luck: 11    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask O17]
"Oboorez once knew tough vangers 
who could easily dive into a whirlpool and pull out various 
objects. Show your talent and dive into a whirlpool 
to convince Oboorez that the Buro is still going strong. 
Reward: 500       Luck: 1     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O18]
"Because of a leaky roof in Ogorod, 
the emergency supply of peeperettes has rotted away. It was there 
in case of a siege by the Buro's enemies. Bring ten peeperettes 
from the next PeepShow to make up for the loss. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 8   Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask O19]
"For peeperettes to sprout lushly, the shrubs must 
be softened properly, and phlegma is best for that. 
Bring eight jars of phlegma before the end of the cycle. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask O20]
"Oboorez has sent dozens of requests to increase 
his cirt allowance because of his service time. However, the dang burocrats 
don't give a rotten beeb about the old chap. Bring Boorawchick to Ogorod, where Oboorez 
will talk to him about life. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 12    Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask Z1]
"Zeephra has suspicions that Zeekatrix is growing flies and sending 
them here to distract ZeePa dwellers from righteous thoughts. 
Repel eight swarms just in case. 
Reward: 500       Luck: 3   Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z2]
"Zeephra has started writing a new series of stories 
about ProtoZeek under the title 'Zeek and Beebs.' 
The new stories are likely to make B-Zoners repent of their wrongdoing. 
Bring 25 fresh beebs for inspiration. 
Reward: 800       Luck: 4     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z3]
"Zeephra wants to grow jablees from Glorx 
to adapt them for scattering popons over B-Zone. 
The effect of the propaganda will jump a hundredfold. 
Bring eight peeperettes right away. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 8   Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask Z4]
"Zeephra has heard many times about the cruelty of vangers. 
However, she doesn't believe these tales: 
vangers are nice and funny, aren't they? 
To deflate these rumors, you must go from ZeePa to B-Zone 
without taking any damage. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 7     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z5]
"Zeephra has been waiting for the real Softie for a long time. 
She believes that they will come and bless her. 
You must fly from ZeePa to B-Zone without landing 
and see if any Softie have come to Necross yet. 
Reward: 1500      Luck: 4     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z6]
"One gross beeboorattish mug 
has offended Zeephra. 
He also said there never were and will never be any Softie. 
This hurt the innermost feelings of the counselor. 
Kill the offender. 
Reward: 4000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask Z7]
"Your playful Zeephra once decided to play a trick 
on an obtuse vanger 
and sent him to find a Departed Bios in the hideouts of Fostral. 
He is on his way back now, all upset. Delay the blockhead 
and stop him from breaking in here while Zeephra 
comes up with another story to justify herself. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z8]
"Zeephra is carrying out research on vanger psychology, 
studying their reaction to external irritants. 
Bombard any seven vangers 
and describe their response. 
Reward: 2500      Luck: 8     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z9]
"Zeephra has heard from vangers that some weird sounds 
have been coming from the Necross bogs lately. 
The counselor has suspicions that there are some Softie sitting in the bogs 
waiting for a chance to come out. 
You are assigned to peek into two bogs and see what's going on in there. 
Reward: 500       Luck: 2    Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z10]
"The vile Zeekatrix likes to spread her toxick 
around the worlds hoping that they'll inhale this gunk 
and get sick. Only recently she sent out a courier. 
Delay him on Necross 
so that his cargo goes a bit sour and loses its toxicity. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z11]
"Zeephra has wings, though she can't fly, 
while some vangers do it easily, 
something that hurts the counselor deeply. 
Fire at three flying vangers 
to calm Zeephra down a little. 
Reward: 1500      Luck: 7     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask Z12]
"The vangers have forgotten good Zeephra completely 
and haven't visited her for a long time. 
B-Zone is drowning in apostasy 
as there's no one to take ProtoZeek to them. 
Bombard five vangers participating in the ritual races 
on Fostral or Glorx to distract them from the vanities of the world. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 9    Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask Z13]
"To harden popons, the messages of ProtoZeek 
to the apostates in B-Zone, Zeephra has developed a new recipe. 
One of its components is toxick. Bring ten bottles before the end of the cycle. 
Reward: 600       Luck: 6     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask Z14]
"Zeephra wants to know how much toxick is left in Zeekatrix's store. 
Bring 20 bottles of the potion from Zeekatrix here 
and maybe her treasure will run out. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 9   Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask Z15]
"Zeephra has heard that Leepky has a statuette. 
It's surprising that the worms could create anything of value. 
Bring Leepuringa here so Zeephra can take a look at this marvel. 
Maybe we'll send it to B-Zone. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 13   Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask Z16]
"You are aware that we send ProtoZeek to B-Zone 
to convert unbelievers and reassure doubters. 
To convince them of our peaceful intentions, win a Zeeklope 
with empty weapon slots. 
Reward: 6000      Luck: 8   Cycles: 6"

[Tabutask Z17]
"Zeephra wants to get hold of a live Eleepod. 
They are good at writing poems 
and their talent can be used to convince the B-Zone dwellers 
of the righteousness of our faith. 
Zeephra intends to raise a little Eleepod herself, 
so you have to bring her an eLeech. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 12   Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask Z18]
"Zeephra thinks that a live Beeboorat 
is the best object to test popons on. 
If this dumb creature shows even a slight reaction 
to the story about ProtoZeek, one can be sure 
that everyone in B-Zone will drown in tears. 
For that reason you are assigned to secure a Beeboorat for Zeephra. She'll find a use for him. 
Reward: 8000      Luck: 10    Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask Z19]
"Zeephra has been waiting a long time for a vanger who could deliver Zeexen 
from the oppression of Larvae and cirt. His appearance would make B-Zone settlers quiver 
and join the cause of ZeePa. 
Bring enough cirt 
to complete the next cycle 
and Zeephra will broadcast the joyful news across all the worlds. 
Reward: 6000      Luck: 12    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask Z20]
"There's gossip afoot that the greedy Beeboorats got themselves two Larvae. 
Another one and it will be a disaster: the Chain of Worlds will break 
and the escaves will drown in bogs. To prevent this, 
take a Beeboorat Larva to one of the cursed worlds and leave it there. 
Reward: 30000     Luck: 15 Cycles: 5"

[Tabutask B1]
"Zeekatrix has decided to cook toxick using a new recipe. 
The potion should be strong and heady 
so that everyone in ZeePa collapses paws up. 
One of the ingredients of the new toxick is fresh beebs, 
so bring 20 of them right away. 
Reward: 900       Luck: 3     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask B2]
"Glorious vangers complain 
about stink horns breeding in large quantities around B-Zone and hampering free movement. 
If vangers stop visiting Zeekatrix, 
who will ship toxick? 
Shoot 20 stinkhorns before the end of the cycle 
to calm the counselor down. 
Reward: 1300      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask B3]
"Zeephra, the pain in the neck, has sent a vanger with popons to other worlds. 
Zeekatrix wants to play a trick on her and keep the courier on Necross 
until the end of the cycle. Then the popons will molder 
and Zeephra will have to write new ones. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask B4]
"Zeekatrix wants to grow flashing beebs in her escave. 
Having chewed over this idea, she's decided what components 
will bring about a successful result. 
Get her two nymbos and a jar of phlegma. 
Reward: 600       Luck: 2     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask B5]
"Zeekatrix has decided to carry out an experiment to find out 
what happens if stinkhorns are allowed to grow for ten cycles in a row, 
and especially whether they'll be able to shoot a mechos. Go to ZeePa from here 
without shooting stinkhorns so as not to mess up the experiment. 
Reward: 400       Luck: 4     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask B6]
"Zeekatrix is very curious about the various weapon 
and device recharging stations left by the Softie. 
They are old and play pranks. 
Take a closer look at them by charging 
and discharging your energy shield three times 
at one of the broken recharging stations. 
Reward: 200       Luck: 8    Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask B7]
"Some lazy raffas refuse to ship toxick no matter 
how much Zeekatrix asks them to, 
saying that toxick gnaws their feeble crates. 
Kill one raffa to gain respect for the counselors from those scabs. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask B8]
"Zeekatrix sent a vanger on an expedition 
to the cursed worlds. Surprisingly, he survived 
and is now coming back for his due reward, 
but the poor counselor doesn't currently have enough beebs. 
Stop the vanger from entering the escave before the end of the cycle, 
and Zeekatrix will try to scrape together the needed amount. 
Reward: 3000      Luck: 8    Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask B9]
"Zeekatrix hates the wheelers from Fostral. 
They are quite bombastic and aren't easily persuaded of the truth 
of the counselor's stories. In addition, they criticize 
Zeekatrix's literary talent. 
Bombard five vangers from Fostral before the end of the cycle 
to take the jackasses down a notch. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 10   Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask B10]
"Zeekatrix is curious as to how raffas survive 
and even manage to ship some wares. 
Perhaps it's because of the toughness of the mechos. 
Shoot up five raffas and watch them jump and fly around. 
Reward: 1500      Luck: 3     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask B11]
"Zeekatrix considers all the ritual races superstitious 
and atavistic, because the Softie 
didn't have any. 
Help and knowledge must be brought to the miserable creatures drowning in their fallacy. 
Bombard two vangers taking part in the ritual races 
on Fostral or Glorx. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 8     Cycles: 0"

[Tabutask B12]
"Zeekatrix has decided to pave the approaches to B-Zone with popons. 
This way the mechos' wheel suspension will not suffer from the bumps, 
and vangers will visit Zeekatrix more often. 
Bring 30 popons for Zeekatrix. 
Reward: 400       Luck: 10    Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask B13]
"Zeekatrix wants to prepare the most poisonous toxick ever 
so that Zeephra kicks the bucket the moment it's brought to ZeePa. 
Bring six bottles of phlegma for it. 
Reward: 1000      Luck: 5     Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask B14]
"Zeekatrix is surprised at Zeephra's ability to cheat 
vangers and make them carry ProtoZeek around. 
Fire at four Zeeklope participants 
to open their eyes. 
Reward: 500       Luck: 5     Cycles: 3"

[Tabutask B15]
"Zeekatrix wants to find out how raffas compare 
to vangers with real mechos. 
To help with the research, 
deliver ProtoZeek in a raffa. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 13    Cycles: 6"

[Tabutask B16]
"Zeekatrix is checking a supposition that Beeboorats originate 
from ooze and seaweed. To carry out the research she needs four shrubs and four Valorins. 
Bring them to Zeekatrix right away. 
Reward: 500       Luck: 7    Cycles: 1"

[Tabutask B17]
"Zeekatrix has heard about some huge and dreadful Softie mechos 
that used to horrify every living thing in the Chain. 
The counselor wants to assemble such a mechos for herself and come out into the world. 
Bring any one part of the mechos 
called Last Moggy. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 14    Cycles: 6"

[Tabutask B18]
"Zeekatrix wants to cook special Beeboorat toxick using a proprietary recipe. 
As the bugs are crazy about their Nucleobooms, 
bring ten of them here right away. 
The new potion should be appreciated on Glorx. 
Reward: 2000      Luck: 10    Cycles: 2"

[Tabutask B19]
"Zeekatrix has heard that some 
funny underground animals live on nearby Ark-a-Noi. They are very timid 
and hide from big and heavy mechos. 
You have to go to this world on a raffa 
and observe the manners of those beasts. 
Reward: 500       Luck: 12    Cycles: 6"

[Tabutask B20]
"Zeekatrix has decided she'll start making popons and send them to ZeePa herself. 
Otherwise they'll think that only duffers live in B-Zone. 
The counselor believes that a fat dweller of Fostral 
would be just perfect for this job. Bring an Eleepod to Zeekatrix quickly 
and she'll knock the socks off those backward guys in ZeePa. 
Reward: 5000      Luck: 15    Cycles: 1"

[Passenger P->I]
"I am an Eleepod on my way from Podish to far-away Incubator. 
Lend your ears, brave wheeler, to the law of driving Eleepods. 
If you see another vanger, hide away in a trench, deep under cover! 
There you will wait until the danger to my precious, playful life is gone..."

[Passenger I->P]
"I am an Eleepod, mind you. I'm on my way from Incubator to Podish. 
Take it slow, just a bit faster than a beeb, and stop gazing around. 
Do not flap my scratchers during the long journey. 
One can't regain inspiration lost on Fostral paths."

[Passenger V->L]
"I am a Beeboorat on my way from point VigBoo to point Lampasso! 
Here are your instructions. Keep strictly to the middle of the road! 
Do not crush the beebs without the proper command. 
Two strikes on the head will serve as the signal to attack."

[Passenger V->O]
"I am a Beeboorat on my way from point VigBoo to point Ogorod! 
Here are your instructions. Keep strictly to the middle of the road! 
Do not crush the beebs without the proper command. 
Two strikes on the head will serve as the signal to attack."

[Passenger L->V]
"I am a Hero Beeboorat on my way from Lampasso to VigBoo! 
Learn courage from the Beeboorats and bone up on the Hymn of the Brave: 
Ooo-aaa! Take a Nucleoboom in your left paw! 
Aaa-ooo! Take your head in your right paw! 
Watch the Jablees flying high! 
Listen to whirlpools gurgle! 
Yeee! Quell the sapless-bellied enemy!"

[Passenger L->O]
"I am a Hero Beeboorat on my way from Lampasso to Ogorod! 
Learn courage from the Beeboorats and bone up on the Hymn of the Brave: 
Ooo-aaa! Take a Nucleoboom in your left paw! 
Aaa-ooo! Take your head in your right paw! 
Watch the Jablees flying high! 
Listen to whirlpools gurgle! 
Yeee! Quell the sapless-bellied enemy!"

[Passenger O->V]
"You, pile of iron, will take the Beeboorat from Ogorod to VigBoo! 
How long has it been since you scrubbed your mechos? You're driving a delegation, not a shrub! 
Can you manage the controls? Didn't miss a single rut, I see, did you? 
Well, well, I'll give you a hand, don't bother me."

[Passenger O->L]
"You, pile of iron, will deliver the Beeboorat from Ogorod to Lampasso! 
How long has it been since you scrubbed your mechos? You're driving a delegation, not a shrub! 
Can you manage the controls? Didn't miss a single rut, I see, did you? 
Well, well, I'll give you a hand, don't bother me."

[Passenger Z->B]
"Hey, lover boy, give the cheerful Zeex a ride from ZeePa to B-Zone, will you? 
Zeephra wants to preach a sermon and give out popons 
to commemorate ProtoZeek's relocation from Glorx to Necross. 
They are expecting me in B-Zone..."

[Passenger Z->V]
"Hey, lover boy, take the cheerful Zeex from ZeePa to VigBoo. 
Do you know the way? You know, the Beeboorats elected me counselor. 
They said I could choose any escave on Glorx. 
If you make me like you, I will appoint you my aid."

[Passenger Z->L]
"Hey, lover boy, give the cheerful Zeex a ride from ZeePa to Lampasso, will you? 
ProtoZeek liked strolling to Lampasso. 
Once while fighting back wild beebs on his way, 
he dropped his staff. Keep your eyes peeled, 
maybe you'll spot it. We'll split the reward fifty-fifty."

[Passenger Z->O]
"Hey, lover boy, take the cheerful Zeex from ZeePa to Ogorod, will you? 
Oboorez wrote that the shrubs are possessed with an evil peeperette spirit. 
I am going there to exorcise it in the name of ProtoZeek by reading popons. 
Drive carefully, my good vanger..."

[Passenger Z->P]
"Hey, lover boy, give the cheerful Zeex a ride from ZeePa to Podish. 
They say that Leepky dug out something like a popon. 
It is a square object, one side dark, 
the other white and glaring 
with mysterious inscriptions."

[Passenger Z->I]
"Hey, lover boy, give the cheerful Zeex a ride from ZeePa to Incubator. 
I will let you in on a secret: Zeephra sent me for an eLeech. 
Do you think Feenger will agree to exchange it 
for ten select popons and a beebbox made of a dried shrub?"

[Passenger B->Z]
"Give the Zeex a ride from B-Zone to ZeePa, will you? I am a good companion. 
Zeekatrix wants to cook toxick for personal orders, 
so I will conduct a survey of all Zeexen, learn their tastes, 
and write down their requests and wishes. This is the new concept of customer service."

[Passenger B->V]
"Give Zeex a ride from B-Zone to VigBoo, will you? I am a good companion. 
As you know, the Beeboorats decided to make Glorx a swamp, 
which will make catching vangers easier for them: one cannot escape from a trembling bog! 
Boorawchick needs a work plan and consultations. That is why I am going there..."

[Passenger B->L]
"Give the Zeex a ride from B-Zone to Lampasso, will you? I am a good companion. 
Geer'ah has invented a competition in which captured vangers take part. 
He is sending out invitations to a new supertournament, 
and those who bring a vanger with them can enter for free. 
You are my ticket, lover boy."

[Passenger B->O]
"Give the Zeex a ride from B-Zone to Ogorod, will you? I am a good companion. 
Oboorez wants to grow Softies out of the shrubs. What a brilliant idea! 
Zeekatrix is watching the experiment closely and supplying chemicals. 
She put forward a hypothesis that if an Eleepod tail is sewed onto a shrub, 
the possibility of getting a Softie in the end is higher!"

[Passenger B->P]
"Won't you give the Zeex a ride from B-Zone to Podish? I am a good companion 
and there are rumors that 
either an Eleepod or a worm resembling a Larva hatched out of some nymbos 
that was lying by a tank of cirt. The Eleepods are hiding this prodigy of nature, 
but I want to rustle around in their escaves and find out the whole truth..."

[Passenger B->I]
"Give the Zeex a ride from B-Zone to Incubator, will you? I am a good companion. 
Haven't you heard the news? The Eleepods have turned into a Departed Bios! 
Their escaves are empty, and I am in a hurry to settle there 
before the Beeboorats with their odds and ends have taken over. 
For a vanger there are some easy pickings: 
Incubator has piles of stuff all over the place. So let's roll, wheeler!"

[Final 1]
"To the Buro. Protocol of the competition (copy). 
Geer'ah (Stylish), the chief referee, Lampasso, 10192th Progress from the flooding of Glorx. 
Arrived at the stadium:- 
35 units of Valorin, of which two qualified as shrubs (The Certificate of Unserviceability and Referral to Ogorod is attached)- 
vanger (1 unit), condition: satisfactory, reflexes: normal, response to light: good- 
15 tech support beebs- 
a dried Zeex (1 unit) for improving Heroism.\\ 
Nucleobooms delivered in time. 
Utilization of the vanger carried out according to 'All vangers go to the stadium for achievements!' by Geer'ah. 
The subject voluntarily took part in 'Mechos in Nuclear War' ('General Register of Sports' by M. Geer'ah, NN 602). 
According to the protocol, the vanger and other competitors were put into iron barrels symbolizing mechos. Another team of competitors stuffed the barrels with hardened Nucleobooms, trying to jam in as many of them as possible. 
As planned, the vanger's 'mechos' accommodated the maximum number of Nucleobooms and he was solemnly proclaimed the winner. Geer'ah put a wreath of seaweed on top of his remains.\\ 
Compendium: Vanger's participation in the competition has boosted ratings by 44%. Faith in the Buro has risen by 12%, conviction in Beeboorat ultimate victory by 1%. 
Registered signs of spectator elation: 22 cases of falling off the stands, 45 cases of tearing off one's own limbs, 2677 screams of excitement."

[Final 2]
"SHIFT 83.12.99 00:01:83
Section N13 - Line 17 - Stand EE-7855/3420.bis. 
Task U/VNG-3/8. Object 442.090. Serial KD/CHSKRN+. 
System message. Event: code X-01. 
Abnormal termination. Category 'Lucky Fluke.'\\ 
Data from master console: zero level for output signals, feedback circuit blocked, Z-trigger in auto-resonance mode, buffer modules cleared. 
Data from scanning V-matrices: the object has contacted the MM-unit and failed to operate.\\ 
Data from logic analyzer: a defect was found in the object, a fatal tendency to finish the testing phase prematurely with a positive result. 
Data from garbage collector: resources from the object after self-destruct have been freed and re-used.\\ 
Error codes: 000, 001, 002, 003, 004, 023, 08338, 0293939."

[Final 3]
"External Thoughts Received En Route to Earth... 
Vanger. The Penetrated Spectators are speaking to you. You have already decomposed into Passage particles, but have not yet left the Chain. You are practically on Earth, and there is no way back. We finally have a moment to explain to you who you are and who we are, as you have reached the point when we are obliged to explain everything and we will not have another chance. The first circle has been passed. Ahead lies what is unknown even to us...\\  
The Spectators are the hidden consciousness of this world. We have managed to free ourselves from the control of physical laws and have overcome even the constraints of time. The Spectators have reached the ultimate fundamentals of the Universe, but we had to transform into another possible form of being to achieve this. Our reality is regularly subjected to cleansing, which destroys any phenomena outside the laws of this world. Once, an error or fluctuation occurred which led to our appearance. We managed to penetrate the situation just in time, before the next purge, and changed our nature by using someone's reserved layers of reality. Since then we have been able to quietly observe the world as it develops, able to return endlessly to what we have already seen, though the longer we did this, the more artificial the world seemed to become. We owe our existence to an external will.\\ 
The birth of the Spectators coincided with the outward expansion of the future Softie: the human civilization. What happened after that is well known to you. The incomprehensible Creature Soup was to bring an end to this enclave world, but in the scenario of our reality vangers suddenly appeared on the surface of the worlds. The rise of these mechanisms was not logical. To us the vangers became the ultimate riddle of the Chain, and we watched them closely, trying to comprehend the essence of their existence and the nature of this phenomenon...\\ 
Our form of existence eliminates direct interaction with physical reality: we can only exchange information. All our attempts to establish contact with the vangers were in vain, and soon it become clear that we were dealing with a mechanical form of will, an exception to the evolution. The Chain was turning into a uniform metastructure. The supervangers became our next discovery: rare forms of this creature characterized by an extremely high level of personal progress in exploring the world and a conspicuous freedom of behavior. Sometimes independent contact with them was possible, but we were never able to interpret their conduct and calculate a system of prediction.\\ 
The vangers have no material substance. We did an immense amount of work communicating lucidly with the natives of the Chain. They informed us that in a certain instant the mechos comes to life and begins to act intelligently. All attempts to penetrate inside the mechos were fruitless, as there is nothing in there that could possibly be an intelligent creature. The vangers control the mechos from without and can move between them, but no sign of a physical presence of vangers outside the mechos has been detected. They are one entity in some respects, but the nucleus of the supervangers seems to lie beyond the boundaries of this reality.\\ 
However, the Spectors managed to find a way to implant their own forms of autonomous wills into the mechos, and at that point we had the chance to launch our own vangers. This process was initiated at the lowermost stratum of the Universe, as the vangers are not a normal part of this reality. So, we started our experiments. Our artificially created vangers have proved practically inviable in the UniVang, though our experiments are still in progress. Later, however, another way was found: we discovered highly powerful, adaptive sources of will in the past.\\ 
You have probably already guessed what we did. Yes, we know precisely who is now before us. You are a player from the 21st century, an ancestor to the Softie. Now you are sitting at your computer and reading this message. You think this is only a game. We got it right.\\ 
As has already been said, we have all the history of the UniVang at our disposal. We turned to the proto-Softie-people from the 21st century-as the later Softie know too much about what happened. Interactive digital miniatures of humans-computer games-proved to be the most useful method of intercepting streams of your consciousness. Nine years prior to the opening of the first Passage we ensured the invention and broad distribution of a new computer game, and in this way the future became bound to the past. We needed strong, stable, lengthy signals from some of the people.\\ 
The game opened up a channel which allowed the player's mind to take direct control of a real vanger unit: your mind, human. It took some time for the vanger's memory to duplicate all the principal matrixes of its host's will and intelligence, but now your clone exists and is ready to act independently, as you have come to the end of the game. After this session you will go on leading a regular life and may even one day become a Softie, while your vanger clone will set off for the unknown. Three seconds are left before your mutual consciousness splits.\\ 
Now we need to explain at least roughly the purpose of our experiments. You have already noticed that as a human you are now on Earth, or rather on its protomodel. After the Clash, our segment of reality became suddenly isolated. All this time the local Spectors have been trying to get to the current Earth, but so far it has been impossible. Only certain super-vangers are able to go through the Passage. We have already managed to send several of our appointees there, but have not yet established communications. It seems this does not work, which is why we improved our plan.\\ 
You have talked to Parapheen, our resident machine in the Chain. It was created through the efforts of our subordinate bios to communicate with active vangers. You followed its order to place a singular transmitter at a point of anomaly in our reality: Threall. This is our attempt to reach beyond the limits of this world. We cannot tell you more, as our hypothesis is beyond your comprehension. Know that you did everything right. Your attempt to get through to Earth when this transmitter is active will probably be successful.\\ 
Human, your vanger has begun moving independently. It has made the transition, and its further destiny is unknown. Farewell...\\ "

[Final 4]
"Inf-Event Control> Activating advanced Monad. Analyzing. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Inf-Event Control. Block for Observing Everything. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed. Block for explaining the terms for the sliding-by Monads. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Monad. Present. Circumstantiation of the term postponed.\\ 
Inf-Reality Stabilizer> Status. Universe UniVang-3/8 online. Extended snapshot stable. Monad reserve normal. Outflow of the tested units normal. Spoilage rate within allowance, deviation insignificant. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Inf-Reality Stabilizer. Block for implementation of small utility universes.\\ 
Inf-Event Control> Analysis complete. The Monad has been tested for second-order mind in accordance with 'Human Vanger.' Decoding results. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. 'Human Vanger.' Serial test of incoming Monads by submerging into class KxD small universe, ID U/VNG-3/8.\\ 
Inf-Event Control> Sensory level of the Monad being processed is zero. Category overloading not complete. Interference required. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Information in residual terms. Human, you do not exist. Testing your structure for mind integrity and strength of will was completed successfully. Your Monad was submerged into a small universe for analysis of autonomous behavior in a specific nested reality. Type of loaded memory: Human of Earth - proto-Softie, from the time before Passages. Advanced features: computer gamer. Scenario: double submerging into the schematic subspace of vangers reflecting the late stage of this small universe.\\ 
Inf-Reality Stabilizer> Status. Routine purge of the universe UniVang-3/8 complete. Summary: Level of local errors normal. Persistent anomaly detected in the reserved layer of reality. Secondary check-up. Error not found. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Purging the small reality. Checking consistency of extended snapshot. In residual terms: eliminating enigmas and phenomena exceeding the limitations of the simulated being.\\ 
Inf-Event Control> Analysis of the exposed Monad complete. Result positive. Volitional characteristics of the Monad and its decision-making capabilities satisfy the standard. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Information in residual terms. All Monads that fulfilled the requirements of the resident unit Carmane in their vanger stage satisfy the pipeline entry requirements. The rest of Monads are immediately destroyed as spoilage.\\ 
Inf-Distribution of Raw Material> The Monad is tested for presence of a mind of the second order and is forwarded to the reserve storage of autonomous volition units. 
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Inf-Distribution of Raw Material. Monad filter. Second order of mind allows the Monad to function on parallel posts of freedom.\\ 
Infernal Event Control> Off... 
Infernal Reality Stabilizer> Off... 
Infernal Resuscitation of the Exposed> Off... 
Infernal Distribution of Raw Material> Off..."

[Final 5]
"External Thoughts Received En Route to Earth... 
Vanger. The Penetrated Spectators are speaking to you. You have already decomposed into Passage particles, but have not yet left the Chain. You are practically on Earth, and there is no way back. We finally have a moment to explain to you who you are and who we are, as you have reached the point when we are obliged to explain everything and we will not have another chance. The first circle has been passed. Ahead lies what is unknown even to us...\\
The Spectators have reached the ultimate fundamentals of the Universe, but we had to transform into another possible form of being to achieve this. Our reality is regularly subjected to cleansing, which destroys any phenomena outside the laws of this world. Once, an error or fluctuation occurred which led to our appearance. We managed to penetrate the situation just in time, before the next purge, and changed our nature by using someone's reserved layers of reality. Since then we have been able to quietly observe the world as it develops, able to return endlessly to what we have already seen, though the longer we did this, the more artificial the world seemed to become. We owe our existence to an external will.\\
The birth of the Spectators coincided with the outward expansion of the future Softie: the human civilization. What happened after that is well known to you. The incomprehensible Creature Soup was to bring an end to this enclave world, but in the scenario of our reality vangers suddenly appeared on the surface of the worlds. The rise of these mechanisms was not logical. To us the vangers became the ultimate riddle of the Chain, and we watched them closely, trying to comprehend the essence of their existence and the nature of this phenomenon...\\
Our form of existence eliminates direct interaction with physical reality: we can only exchange information. All our attempts to establish contact with the vangers were in vain, and soon it become clear that we were dealing with a mechanical form of will, an exception to the evolution. The Chain was turning into a uniform metastructure. The supervangers became our next discovery: rare forms of this creature characterized by an extremely high level of personal progress in exploring the world and a conspicuous freedom of behavior. Sometimes independent contact with them was possible, but we were never able to interpret their conduct and calculate a system of prediction.\\
The vangers have no material substance. We did an immense amount of work communicating lucidly with the natives of the Chain. They informed us that in a certain instant the mechos comes to life and begins to act intelligently. All attempts to penetrate inside the mechos were fruitless, as there is nothing in there that could possibly be an intelligent creature. The vangers control the mechos from without and can move between them, but no sign of a physical presence of vangers outside the mechos has been detected. They are one entity in some respects, but the nucleus of the supervangers seems to lie beyond the boundaries of this reality.\\
However, the Spectors managed to find a way to implant their own forms of autonomous wills into the mechos, and at that point we had the chance to launch our own vangers. This process was initiated at the lowermost stratum of the Universe, as the vangers are not a normal part of this reality. So, we started our experiments. Our artificially created vangers have proved practically inviable in the UniVang, though our experiments are still in progress. Later, however, another way was found: we discovered highly powerful, adaptive sources of will in the past.\\
You have probably already guessed what we did. Yes, we know precisely who is now before us. You are a player from the 21st century, an ancestor to the Softie. Now you are sitting at your computer and reading this message. You think this is only a game. We got it right.\\
As has already been said, we have all the history of the UniVang at our disposal. We turned to the proto-Softie-people from the 21st century-as the later Softie know too much about what happened. Interactive digital miniatures of humans-computer games-proved to be the most useful method of intercepting streams of your consciousness. Nine years prior to the opening of the first Passage we ensured the invention and broad distribution of a new computer game, and in this way the future became bound to the past. We needed strong, stable, lengthy signals from some of the people.\\
The game opened up a channel which allowed the player's mind to take direct control of a real vanger unit: your mind, human. It took some time for the vanger's memory to duplicate all the principal matrixes of its host's will and intelligence, but now your clone exists and is ready to act independently, as you have come to the end of the game. After this session you will go on leading a regular life and may even one day become a Softie, while your vanger clone will set off for the unknown. Three seconds are left before your mututal consciousness splits.\\
Now we need to explain at least roughly the purpose of our experiments. You have already noticed that as a human you are now on Earth, or rather on its protomodel. After the Clash, our segment of reality became suddenly isolated. All this time the local Spectors have been trying to get to the current Earth, but so far it has been impossible. Only certain super-vangers are able to go through the Passage. We have already managed to send several of our appointees there, but have not yet established communications. It seems this does not work, which is why we improved our plan.\\
You have talked to Parapheen, our resident machine in the Chain. It was created through the efforts of our subordinate bios to communicate with active vangers. You followed its order to place a singular transmitter at a point of anomaly in our reality: Threall. This is our attempt to reach beyond the limits of this world. We cannot tell you more, as our hypothesis is beyond your comprehension. Know that you did everything right. Your attempt to get through to Earth when this transmitter is active will probably be successful.\\
Human, your vanger has begun moving independently. It has made the transition, and its further destiny is unknown. Farewell...
Inf-Event Control> Activating advanced Monad. Analyzing.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Inf-Event Control. Block for Observing Everything.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed. Block for explaining the terms for the sliding-by Monads.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Monad. Present. Circumstantiation of the term postponed.\\
Inf-Reality Stabilizer> Status. Universe UniVang-3/8 online. Extended snapshot stable. Monad reserve normal. Outflow of the tested units normal. Spoilage rate within allowance, deviation insignificant.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Inf-Reality Stabilizer. Block for implementation of small utility universes.\\
Inf-Event Control> Analysis complete. The Monad has been tested for second-order mind in accordance with 'Human Vanger.' Decoding results.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. 'Human Vanger.' Serial test of incoming Monads by submerging into class KxD small universe, ID U/VNG-3/8.\\ 
Inf-Event Control> Sensory level of the Monad being processed is zero. Category overloading not complete. Interference required.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Information in residual terms. Human, you do not exist. Testing your structure for mind integrity and strength of will completed successfully. Your Monad was submerged into a small universe for analysis of autonomous behavior in a specific nested reality. Type of loaded memory: Human of Earth - proto-Softie from the time before Passages. Advanced features: computer gamer. Scenario: double submerging into the schematic subspace of vangers reflecting the late stage of this small universe.\\
Inf-Reality Stabilizer> Status. Routine purge of the universe UniVang-3/8 complete. Summary: Level of local errors normal. A persistent anomaly detected in the reserved layer of reality. Secondary check-up. The error not found.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Purging the small reality. Checking consistency of extended snapshot. In residual terms: eliminating enigmas and phenomena exceeding the limitations of the simulated being.\\
Inf-Event Control> Analysis of the exposed Monad complete. Result positive. Volitional characteristics of the Monad and its decision-making capabilities satisfy the standard.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Information in residual terms. All Monads that fulfilled the requirements of the resident unit Carmane in their vanger stage, satisfy the pipeline entry requirements. The rest of Monads are immediately destroyed as spoilage.\\
Inf-Distribution of Raw Material> The Monad tested for presence of the mind of second order and is forwarded to the reserve storage of autonomous volition units.
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Info. Inf-Distribution of Raw Material. Monad filter. Second order of mind allows the Monad to function on parallel posts of freedom.\\
Inf-Reality Stabilizer> CAUTION! Emergency interrupt. Disturbances of the highest class of severity detected in UniVang-3/8. Emergency purge of the reality did not eliminate the anomaly. Persistent indications of the hypothetical Third Will are observed in the sterile TRL-zone. According to the instruction 'About the Possibility of the Emergence of Analogous Reason' a snapshot of the reality has been saved.\\
Inf-Event Control> Signal of category 'A' registered: 'The Spectors want to talk to you'. The semantics of the signal are beyond the scope of the parsing unit of the pipeline. Monad testing is suspended.
Inf-Distribution of Raw Material> According to the instructions, all Monads tested in a universe with a discovered anomaly are forwarded to the Experts as potential carriers of the Phenomenon.\\
Inf-Resuscitation of the Exposed> Operating instructions for small utility universes. There is an infinitesimal probability of an emergence of Reason in nested realities. Any cases of anomalies of the highest class of severity being discovered that are not eliminated by an emergency purge must be subjected to detailed analysis by the Experts. The creators of the Monad pipeline assume the possibility of the emergence of the Third Will...\\
Infernal Event Control> Off...
Infernal Reality Stabilizer> Off...
Infernal Resuscitation of the Exposed> Off...
Infernal Distribution of Raw Material> Off..."

