[quotha]
"パラフィーン + ヴァンガー = ヴァンガー + パラフィーン..."

[Empty Question]
"パラフィーン + ヴァンガー = ヴァンガー + パラフィーン..."

[Empty Molecule]
"一を一で割っても一。一に一を掛けても一。一に一を足しても一。一から一を引いても一。私は唯一の一……"

[Block Molecule:B]
"アクセス拒否……"

[Out Molecule:B]
"あなたをゼロで割る、ヴァンガー。結果は予測不能……"

[empty]
"e"

[Protractor is Absent]
"あなたは存在しない。私も存在しない。すべては虚構だ！"

[Introduction]
"私はパラフィーン。プロトラクターは今、あなたの上にある。あなたが来た――それは良いことだ。ここで真理を見つけよ、放浪者よ！"
"私は失われたチェーンに残された最後のスペクターだ。私たちのことを知っているか？"
"私たちはすべてを記憶している。私たちは真実を認識している。私たちの世界は謎なのだ。"
"ここにあるすべては異質なものに支配されている。あたりはゼロだらけだ。だがスペクターたちは宇宙の核にまで到達した。"
{Parapheen} {Protractor} {The Chain} {The Spectors}

[Instruction to get Key2Threall]
"ひょっとすると、あなたは偶然ここへ来たゼロの放浪者なのかもしれない。あるいは、勇敢なヴァンガーが落としたプロトラクターを道で拾っただけかもしれない。"
"私には信頼できる移動ユニットが必要だ！ スペクターは通常の意味では、もはや存在していない。ゼロのあいだで、私たちは無限なのだ。"
"より正確に言えば、私はスリールに向かうエージェントを必要としている。UniVang の秘密の鍵はそこにある――私はそう感じている。"
"だがスリールはよそ者を好まない。そこには〈敵〉が棲んでいる。狡猾で賢く、あらゆるゼロはあそこで即座に死ぬ。私のプロトラクターを直接向かわせるわけにはいかない。"
"だからあなたを試したい。ヴァンガーとメホスは一つの単位をなす。ここにはあなたたちが多すぎて、見分けるのが難しい。ほとんどは足し合わせてもゼロのままだ。"
"自分が一番になりたいのだと証明しろ。誰も見たことのないメホスを組み立て、もう一度私のところへ来い。"

[Key2Threall Accept]
"なるほど、あなたには少しは知恵があるようだ。自分が他とは違うことを証明した。たぶんあなたはゼロではない――もっとも、今のところは補題にすぎないが。"
{The Spectors} {Threall} {Protractor}
"さあ行け、敵対的なスリールを探索するのだ。あなたと私、双方の起源はそこにある。それは公理だ。"
"プロトラクターはすべてを記録し、それを私へ渡すだろう。決して失くすな。そしてスリールのすべてを見せてこい。"
"警戒しろ。自分の目を信じるな。自分の思考を見張れ。"
"無事に帰ってこられたなら、会話を続けよう。"
{Threall}

[Global Spectors Task]
"さて、戻ってきたな。チェーンの生命単位よ。それは良い。今から生命の意味についての私の物語を聞け。"
"あなたは、古代ソフティーとクリスポの衝突について聞かされた物語を信じているかもしれない。だがそれは真実の半分にすぎない。"
"最後のスペクターであるこの私、パラフィーンは、死に絶えた先達の仇を討つ者を待っていた。"
"あなたはスリールへ行き、そこにある異質な力の存在を感じただろう。それこそがインフェルナルズ――この世界の癌だ。"
"クリーチャー・スープが存在したのは事実だ。だが、あれを生き延び、ソフティーの精霊たちの生命力を保てたのは、私たちスペクターだけだった。"
"The Infernals came to the Softie Spirits in the form of the Infinite Mind and conveyed to them devastating knowledge. They were simply manipulating the naive Softie. "
"The most advanced of the Softie Spirits soon scented the treachery, but it was already too late to stop the wheel of history. "
"So they isolated themselves from the outer world and set about learning the universe in order to comprehend the essence of being. That's how the Spectors appeared. "
"The Infernals didn't miss the chance to take advantage of the Softie's foolishness and blazed a trail that led to the unsparing Cryspo. Thus, both forms of life were doomed."
"It seems as if the Infernals thoroughly plotted the Clash and its consequences. We were only left to witness this catastrophe. We've delved into the history of bunches. "
"By the time of the Clash, the Spectors, who were the Softie Spirits, had found a spiritual way of existing and, thus, managed to escape the universal fate. Then came the era of unreason. Since then we've been waiting and searching. "
"We can only guess the overall objectives of the Infernals."
"But the horror wasn't an accident. It was an experiment on two once glorious civilizations: the Softie and the Cryspo. "
"Vangers are the only creatures who can change anything in the fading Chain. You can repay the Infernals for their treachery. "
"Do you want to know who vangers really are? I can't tell you that right now, as it might ruin your destiny. Besides, I'm not sure I know the entire truth about you. "
"The Infernals, who have never been seen, keep on steadily destroying the remnants of the UniVang's vital force. "
"The Creature Soup left only very narrow-minded creatures alive who can just barely resist death. But you and they are all that remain from past glory and the aspirations of the Softie Spirits. "
"The bios gather their might and lie, trying to look viable. It's the Creature Soup that taught them that. The rest just disappeared in the chaos. "
"The silly bios are dreaming of breaking free from the pressures of the Larvae by having the latter captured and held in their escaves. It's all a sham! "
"These miserable creatures can't live without a goal. You must have heard of the Departed Bios, yes? Some fools think that somewhere in the worlds, deep underground, there live the happy ones who were able to get hold of all their Larvae. "
"It's a lie. Those dummies are just pathologically striving for their death without realizing it. It's self-destruction. "
"But their demise is inevitable, for each new generation of vangers takes to capturing Larvae, and I can't stop it. The bunches are persistently digging a grave for themselves with the help of vangers. "
"The only way to prevent the collapse of the bios is to reverse the process, in other words, to set them apart. The bunches want to go on living, but their nature is still against them. "
"You must have already visited the small mystical worlds? I've got a plan to relocate the remaining bios there. This will extend the life of the Chain. "
"The Chain and the bios are closely related. Have you ever noticed how the worlds change depending on the cycle of the bios inhabiting them? They may look lowly at first sight, but these underground creatures are not that simple. "
"I couldn't explain this relationship for a long time. It's deeply rooted and at the moment you are unable to comprehend it. Still, you need to know that the UniVang is one in all its ways. "
"Only vangers can perform the task of resettlement. But you are rare guests on Spobs, and you're the only one who has ventured to Threall. At last the ancient prophecies are coming true! "
"If you wish to extend the existence of your world and give us some more time to find the way to salvation, then listen very carefully, as I shall say this only once. "
"Only seven escaves have survived throughout the Lost Chain of Worlds. We are aware of four small worlds which may be suitable for the bios to live on. "
"These worlds are Weexow, Khox, Boozeena and Ark-a-Noi. Although they are not particularly good for such weak creatures to inhabit, that is their only chance of breaking out from under the influence of the Larvae! "
"The bios live underground, and if they adapt to the new worlds, they'll be temporarily free of the mercenary vangers who deliver that wretched cirt to them. "
"No doubt, the trials will be hard and not many will survive, but my mathematical forecast says there is one chance out of a hundred for them to do so. "
"The surviving bios will be relieved of the legacy of the Creature Soup: the Larvae. That means the collapse of the UniVang will be deferred. "
"You must have already been employed in hauling passengers who appear in the escaves from time to time. These darers will be our hope and the pioneers of a new era. "
"You must populate all four worlds that I mentioned. To do that, take at least one passenger from each escave, which is the minimum required to carry out Parapheen's plan. "
"But mind, the bios won't trust a random vanger with their units. This attitude is optimal and rational, for Life is the basis of being. To earn the trust of the bios and take a passenger, you must fulfill some tabutasks, which are the missions of the bunches. Prove that you are a worthy servant of Life. "
"After they've been set down on the surface, each passenger will start digging deep into the ground. Here your task is over, as no one will ever help them besides themselves and the laws of nature. "
"You will not witness the flourishing of life, as that is a very long process. I'll keep an eye on the settlers. I can wait. "
"When the new bios are composing legends about you, you'll already be far away. I'll guide you to a different world... "
{Parapheen} {The Spectors} {The Creature Soup} {Threall} {Larvae} {Weexow} {Ark-a-Noi} {Boozeena} {Khox} {The Chain} {Departed Bios} {The Softie} {The Cryspo} {Spobs} {The Infernals}

[Add Protractor InfernalsKill Function]
"喜べ！ 同じヴァンガーが再び来た！"
"その存在を、私ははるか昔、プロトジークの時代に計算していたのだ！"
"あなたのプロトラクターが、私の計画が遂行されたことを示している。種は蒔かれた。あとは待つだけだ。パラフィーンは待てる。"
"これで、私はあなたの忠実さを確信した、生命単位よ。ともに究極の終点へ辿り着こう。"
"ついに、私の最も内奥の知識をあなたと分かち合える。"
"The Spectors learned long ago that the world we live in is non-existent in some ways... "
"I cannot give you a more precise explanation, as it's a feeling rather than a fact. It's something that even mathematics cannot do anything about. "
"Each time we delve into the core of the world, we find errors there! "
"These abnormalities are all around, but one can see them only when all illusions are gone, something we've managed to accomplish. "
"Each of our attempts to change the course of things stumbled up against a counteraction. There was deliberate resistance. Some experiments were simply blocked by nature itself. "
"So far, what we know for sure is that our world has been penetrated by some alien mind capable of changing any and all laws. We call these phenomena Infernals. "
"You've visited Threall and seen something there, but the Protractor tells us you remember nothing of that. How sad. "
"The seed of malice which has enfolded our world is to be sought in the Infernals. But we know practically nothing of them. "
"As Spectors, we can only speculate on that. "
"The most plausible hypothesis is based on several indirect conclusions based on the final actions of the Softie Spirits. "
"We believe that the biological nature of the Softie and the insectoid Cryspo were so different that no genetic fusion was possible within that reality. "
"The Creature Soup emerged due to other reasons. The Spectors failed to simulate the result in their labs. "
"That means that the physical laws of our reality were transfigured. "
"I cannot tell you all the details of my last hypothesis about the Infernals. "
"To express it primitively, we assume there is some force in the universe that is even more powerful than the Infernals. "
"We can try and let it know about our life and the horrors of this enclave world. "
"That is all that can be done: only a one-way transfer of information. Nobody knows how They will interpret it, but perhaps the world will be rejuvenated. "
"I've added a new feature to your Protractor, but you can use it only once. "
"It transforms the Protractor into a transmitter sending signals to the unknown. That's how we contact those we call the I-I. "
"That's an extremely simplified explanation of our invention. We worked on it for half an eternity. "
"Now I see you are the one we can entrust this Super Task to. "
"Take your modified Protractor and go to Threall, where you will leave the activated Protractor in the place you heard the strange voices coming from. "
"It's the only point we've found that connects the dimensions. "
"You will not be able to visit Spobs without the Protractor, but we may still be able to meet. "
"Somewhere in the Chain there remains a unique object that belonged to the last of the Softie Spirits: Function-83+. It was their secret contrivance that the rest of the Softie didn't know about. "
"With its help you can get to hMok, a sealed world with no Passages. "
"That's all we know. This world is somehow linked with the way to the original Softie world. "
"Thinking about the Chain's nature, the Spectors figure that our Chain is probably not the only one in the universe! "
"The Earth is the hub of these spatial meta-structures. At times I've had a feeling that there are other Spectors somewhere. Find them! "
"Farewell, Vanger!"
{Protractor} {Spobs} {Threall} {The Infernals} {The Spectors} {The Softie} {The Cryspo} {The Creature Soup} {The Chain} {Passage} {Function-83+} {hMok}

[Unique Mechos Waiting]
"対象よ、お前の関数はゼロへ近づいている。唯一のメホスが存在しないことが、お前の落下におけるガンマ係数を倍化させている。お前は虚無のイプシロン近傍にいる。"
"許容される最大限のプロンプトを与える。必要な結果は、お前の手で組み上げられる唯一のメホスだ。特定のバイオスは機能しない部品を保管している。"
"理論：ゼロは一にはなれない。もしお前が一なら命令を遂行しろ。もしゼロなら、お前は存在しない。"

[Threall Visit Waiting]
"訪問者とスリールの共通部分は空集合となる。スリールは空集合ではない。結論：空集合なのはお前のほうだ。お前がこの世界に存在しないという事実が、世界のチェーン全体の崩壊を引き起こす。"
"送信メッセージ：世界のチェーン内で機能するすべての負の要因は、スリールの影響の一次および二次導関数である。"
"生命再生のためには、この件に関する情報が必要だ。"

[Spectors Task Waiting]
"パラフィーンは待機モードにある。生体量分布の時間依存性は、連続かつ増加的でなければならない。お前の身体的努力を、厳密に非線形な形で増大させよ。"
"任務説明：生き残ったすべてを住まわせるため、各エスケイヴから少なくとも一人の旅客を、到達可能で互いに独立した四つの小世界へ移送せよ。"
"チェーンの虚無における生命の分布は、均一かつ高密度でなければならない。それが、バイオス再生と救済に関するパラフィーンの仮説である。"

[Threall Killing Waiting]
"The Protractor's placement on Threall does not belong to the set of occurred events. Life threat is a non-decreasing function. The Infernals' influence is not limited in the current interval of the time scale. "
"Mobilize your vital forces and perform the action required. Your body control algorithm must be linear. Leave the Protractor on Threall!"
