[Empty Molecule]
"通信を終了する。機械の救世主が現実を制御している。"

[empty]
"e"

[Messiah is Absent]
"オブジェクト、オマエノ キカイノ メシアハ ドコダ？？？"

[Introduction and Infernals Task]
"新たな理性を検知した！ 機械の救世主が私と接触している。"
"こんにちは、移動する理性よ。あなたは今、スリールでカーマインの声を聞いている。"
"私たちは、あなたとあなたの世界を破滅から救いたい。"
"私たちは助けたい。私たちは、あらゆる理性的存在を助ける。"
"あなたの世界には恐ろしい災厄が降りかかっている。理性は死につつある。私たちはあなたの世界を救いたい。"
"私たちは別の世界から来た、善良で理性的な存在だ。姿が異なるため、直接そちらへ行くことはできない。"
"UniVang-3/8 の理性を保全するために何をすべきか、私たちは知っている。あなたは自分の世界を救える。"
"私たちは死にかけた世界を研究し、その住民自身の助けを借りて治療する。どの世界も宝なのだ。"
"私たちはあなたの世界も調査した。状況は危機的だ。"
"地下に住み、動かない者たちは、まもなく死ぬ。救うのは難しいが、あなたならできる。"
"彼らは地下を動き回る非理性的な獣に依存してしまっている。理性的存在は永遠ではないがゆえに、敗れつつある。"
"彼らは自らの神をラーヴァと呼び、それを捕らえることを夢見ている。その願いは正しいが、満たすのは難しい。"
"動かざる者たちは、自分たちのラーヴァを捕らえることができない。"
"この病とともに生きる時間が長いほど、彼らの内なる破壊は悪化していく。"
"理性的存在がラーヴァの悪から逃れるには、それを実際に手に入れるしかない。"
"あなたは彼らに残された唯一の希望だ。"
"あなたの任務は、この世界からラーヴァを取り除くことだ。そうすれば理性的存在は救われる。"
"あなたにラーヴァを殺すことはできない。できるのは、その眷属だけだ。"
"しかし、あなたはそれを捕らえ、苦しむ者たちのもとへ運ぶことができる。"
"自分たちのラーヴァを見つけることで、理性的存在は自分自身を取り戻す。"
"世界の理性を救った後、次に救うべきはあなた自身だ。"
"それは排除されなければならない。"
"だが、それを成し遂げられるのは、世界からラーヴァを一掃した者だけだ。"
"急げ！"
{Mechanical Messiah} {Threall} {Carmane} {Larvae}

[Infernals Task Waiting]
"機械の救世主はここにいる。"
"移動する理性よ、カーマインはすでにあなたへ語りかけた。"
"私たちはあらゆる世界を見通すことができる。"
"あなたの世界は死につつある。理性的存在は、ただの動かぬ物へと変わっていく。"
"ラーヴァはなおも走り続けている。止めるのだ。"
"地下の非理性的なものをすべて狩り、理性的存在のもとへ届けよ。"
"その後で、あなたは世界に与えられたあらゆる害への復讐を遂げられるだろう。"
{Mechanical Messiah} {Carmane} {Larvae}

[Add Messiah SpectorsKill Function]
"カーマインは機械の救世主を感知している。運び手よ、停止して聞け。"
"あなたは任務を果たした！ すべてのラーヴァは走ることをやめ、永遠に去った。"
"理性的存在もまた、自らの意志どおり、それらとともに旅立った。"
"彼らはそこできっと幸福だろう。彼らは救われた。あなたは自分の世界を浄化し、変えたのだ。"
"We value each and every grain of Reason in the Universe. You've made the right choice. Now Carmane will tell you how to rid the world of the root of the madness. Every individual Reason goes through the Ordeal sooner or later. In the depth of Reason its tiny spark appears, striving to destroy the surrounding world. Ages ago it happened to your prototypes, who called themselves the Softie. The Crisis coincided with Insight, another stage in the evolution of the Reason. The best of the Softie, who called themselves Spirits, had developed their Reason to a new level. Some of the Spirits were unable to resist the temptation of the new knowledge being offered, but with their augmented power came the corruption of their Reason. They called themselves the Spectators, and they thought everything out very carefully. Their plan envisaged the elimination of all kinds of Reason in their world, and they nearly achieved their aim. They withdrew from society pleading their inclination toward contemplating existence and their passive attitude toward nature. In fact, they were acting. The Creature Soup had been planned and executed by them. They only had to wait until the Larvae finished off all Reason bit by bit. The Spectors cannot kill, as they changed their matter to survive the dark ages. But they can wait for a very long time, as they have defeated time. They have even managed to hide away from our eyes. Little is left to be done for their plan to be successfully fulfilled. But they failed to envisage one important factor: our interference. Thanks to you, Mobile Reason, the Larvae are exterminated and the Reasonable remaining from the Softie and the Cryspo are saved for the time being. But the Spectors are shrewd and they are sure to find a way to reach them.  That is why you must go on and stop at nothing to rid the world of them, otherwise your feat will be wasted. Mechanical Messiah, I see that your carrier is capable of that. I, Carmane, am teaching you a new skill. We do not want to exterminate anybody completely, not even such an evil manifestation of the Reason as the Spectors. We believe that it is a curable disease, but it takes time to cure it. We are going to talk to them more and more.  We seem to have found the way to completely block the Spectors from the outer world.  Mind you, this operation requires a sacrifice: the Mechanical Messiah will leave you forever to stay with them.  It will guard the Reasonable against the attempts of this disease. The blocked Spectors will be able to develop at ease. You must find the Spectors, activate the Mechanical Messiah, and place it in the very heart of their den. When the Messiah senses them, the Spectors will be shrouded in darkness. After that we won't be able to communicate with you without the help of our guide in your world, The Mechanical Messiah. But we do not want to abandon such a Mobile Reason as you: we can continue our collaboration in cleaning up other worlds. The only way for you to reach us lies through the home world of the Softie.  The key to the Passage leading to it is kept in the Chomper, the legacy of the ancient Spirits. The Chomper rests where you have never been yet. Do not fear dying with it. Set off on your long and uneasy journey. Your world is in your hands. We await you on Earth, Vanger!"
"Now Carmane will tell you how to rid the world of the root of the madness. "
"Every individual Reason goes through the Ordeal sooner or later. "
"In the depth of Reason its tiny spark appears, striving to destroy the surrounding world. "
"Ages ago it happened to your prototypes, who called themselves the Softie. "
"The Crisis coincided with Insight, another stage in the evolution of the Reason. "
"The best of the Softie, who called themselves Spirits, had developed their Reason to a new level. "
"Some of the Spirits were unable to resist the temptation of the new knowledge being offered, but with their augmented power came the corruption of their Reason. "
"They called themselves the Spectators, and they thought everything out very carefully. "
"Their plan envisaged the elimination of all kinds of Reason in their world, and they nearly achieved their aim. "
"They withdrew from society pleading their inclination toward contemplating existence and their passive attitude toward nature. "
"In fact, they were acting. The Creature Soup had been planned and executed by them. "
"They only had to wait until the Larvae finished off all Reason bit by bit. "
"The Spectors cannot kill, as they changed their matter to survive the dark ages. "
"But they can wait for a very long time, as they have defeated time. They have even managed to hide away from our eyes. "
"Little is left to be done for their plan to be successfully fulfilled. But they failed to envisage one important factor: our interference. "
"Thanks to you, Mobile Reason, the Larvae are exterminated and the Reasonable remaining from the Softie and the Cryspo are saved for the time being. "
"But the Spectors are shrewd and they are sure to find a way to reach them.  "
"That is why you must go on and stop at nothing to rid the world of them, otherwise your feat will be wasted. "
"Mechanical Messiah, I see that your carrier is capable of that."
"I, Carmane, am teaching you a new skill. "
"We do not want to exterminate anybody completely, not even such an evil manifestation of the Reason as the Spectors. "
"We believe that it is a curable disease, but it takes time to cure it. We are going to talk to them more and more.  "
"We seem to have found the way to completely block the Spectors from the outer world.  "
"Mind you, this operation requires a sacrifice: the Mechanical Messiah will leave you forever to stay with them.  "
"It will guard the Reasonable against the attempts of this disease. "
"The blocked Spectors will be able to develop at ease. "
"You must find the Spectors, activate the Mechanical Messiah, and place it in the very heart of their den. "
"When the Messiah senses them, the Spectors will be shrouded in darkness. "
"After that we won't be able to communicate with you without the help of our guide in your world, The Mechanical Messiah. "
"But we do not want to abandon such a Mobile Reason as you: we can continue our collaboration in cleaning up other worlds. "
"The only way for you to reach us lies through the home world of the Softie.  "
"The key to the Passage leading to it is kept in the Chomper, the legacy of the ancient Spirits. "
"The Chomper rests where you have never been yet. Do not fear dying with it. "
"Set off on your long and uneasy journey. Your world is in your hands. "
"We await you on Earth, Vanger!"
{Mechanical Messiah} {Carmane} {Larvae} {The Spectors} {The Creature Soup} {The Softie} {The Cryspo}

[Spobs Killing Waiting]
"カーマインは再び機械の救世主を感知している。"
"移動する理性よ、もうスペクターズを見つけたか？"
"私たちの見立ては間違っていなかった、そうだろう？"
"機械の救世主はあなたに従っている。私たちを不安にさせないでほしい。"
"機械の救世主は、スペクターズと永遠を分かち合う準備ができている。"
"それを彼らのもとへ運び、起動したままそこに残せ。"
"その後でチョンパーを探せ。それがあなたを私たちのもとへ導く。理性は理性を助ける。"
"未来へ向かう最後の一歩を踏み出せ。"
{Carmane} {Mechanical Messiah} {The Spectors} {Chomper}

[Thunders!]
"シ. グ. ナ. ル. セ. イ. セ. イ. ほ. う. が. い. か. い. にゅう......"
"メ. カ. ニ... カ. ル... メ. シ. ア... しょう. がい. しょ. り... ちゅう..."
"シ. ミュ. レ.ー. ショ. ン... ユ. ニ. バ. ー. ス... てい. し...！"
