[Empty Molecule]
"Контакт прекращен. Механический Мессия контролирует реальность."
"Communication terminated. The Mechanical Messiah controls the reality. "

[empty]
"п"
"e"

[Messiah is Absent]
"ЕДГ ЙОВТ ЙИКСЕЧИНАХЕМ ЯИССЕМ, ТЕМДЕРП???"
"EREHW SI RUOY LACINAHCEM HAISSEM, TCEJBO???"

[Introduction and Infernals Task]
"Обнаружен новый Разум! Механический Мессия соприкасается со мной. "
"Здравствуй, Разумный! Ты на Трилле и слушаешь Кармана. "
"Мы хотим спасти тебя и твой мир от гибели. "
"Мы хотим помочь. Мы помогаем всем Разумным. "
"Ваш мир постигла ужасная катастрофа. Разум умирает. Мы хотим спасти твой мир. "
"МЫ - Разумные добрые существа из другого мира. Мы не можем к вам прийти сами - мы Другие. "
"Но мы знаем, что нужно сделать для сохранения Разума Униванга-3/8. Ты можешь спасти свой мир. "
"Мы изучаем умирающие миры и лечим их с помощью самих жителей. Каждый мир - сокровище. "
"Мы изучили и твой мир. Ситуация критическая. "
"Те, кто не двигается и живет под землей, скоро умрут. Их трудно спасти. Но ты можешь это сделать. "
"Они попали в зависимость от неразумных существ, двигающихся под землей. Разумные проигрывают, ибо не вечны. "
"Они называют своих богов Куклами и мечтают их поймать. Их желания верны, но трудновыполнимы. "
"Неподвижные не могут сами захватить своих Кукол. "
"Чем дольше они живут со своей болезнью, тем больше их внутреннее разрушение. "
"Разумные могут освободится от зла Кукол только заполучив их в свои руки. "
"Их единственный шанс - это ты. "
"Твоя задача избавить от Кукол свой мир. Тогда Разумные будут спасены. "
"Сам ты не можешь убить Куклу - это могут сделать только ее подданные. "
"Но ты можешь поймать их и соединить со страждущими. "
"Обретя всех своих Кукол, Разумные вновь обретают себя. "
"После того, как ты спасешь Разум своего мира, тебе нужно будет спасти самого себя. "
"В твоем мире действует сила, погубившая предков. Ее нужно ликвидировать. "
"Но сделать это может только тот, кто очистит мир от Кукол. "
"Поспеши!"
"Detected new Reason! The Mechanical Messiah is in touch with me. "
"Hello, Mobile Reason. You are on Threall listening to Carmane. "
"We want to save you and your world from destruction. "
"We want to help you. We help all the Reasonable. "
"A terrible catastrophe has befallen your world. The Reason is dying. We want to save your world. "
"We are kind, rational beings from another world. We cannot come in person as we are different. "
"We know what must be done to preserve the Reason of UniVang-3/8. You can save your world. "
"We study dying worlds and cure them with the help of their own inhabitants. Each world is a treasure. "
"We have studied your world, too. The situation is critical."
"Those who live underground and don't move will die soon. It will be hard to save them, but you can do it. "
"They have become dependent on unreasonable beasts that move underground. The Reasonable lose, as they are not eternal. "
"They call their gods Larvae and dream of catching them. Their desires are correct, but hard to meet. "
"The Unmoving are unable to capture their own Larvae. "
"The longer they live with their disease, the worse their internal Destruction becomes. "
"The Reasonable can get rid of the Larvae's evil only by getting hold of them. "
"You are their only chance. "
"Your task is to rid your world of Larvae. Then the Reasonable will be saved. "
"You cannot kill Larvae; only their subjects can do that. "
"But you can catch them and take them to the sufferers. "
"By finding their Larvae, the Reasonable find themselves. "
"After you have saved the Reason of your world, you'll have to save yourself. "
"It must be eliminated, "
"but only the one who clears the world of Larvae is able to do that. "
"Be quick!"
{Механический Мессия} {Трилл} {Карман} {Куклы}
{Mechanical Messiah} {Threall} {Carmane} {Larvae}

[Infernals Task Waiting]
"Механический Мессия здесь. "
"Карман уже говорил с тобой, Подвижный Разум. "
"Мы видим все миры насквозь. "
"Твой мир гибнет. Разумные становятся предметами. "
"Куклы продолжают свой бег. Останови их. "
"Убей всех подземных неразумных - соедини их со своими рабами. "
"После этого ты сможешь отомстить за причиненное своему миру зло."
"The Mechanical Messiah is here. "
"Carmane has spoken to you already, Mobile Reason. "
"We can see into all worlds. "
"Your world is dying. The Reasonable turn into inanimate objects. "
"Larvae continue their run. Stop them. "
"Kill all the underground unreasonable and deliver them to the Reasonable. "
"After that you'll be able to take revenge for all the harm done to your world."
{Механический Мессия} {Карман} {Куклы}
{Mechanical Messiah} {Carmane} {Larvae}

[Add Messiah SpectorsKill Function]
"Карман чувствует Механического Мессию. Остановись и слушай, носитель. "
"Ты выполнил свою Задачу! Все Куклы остановили свой ход и ушли навсегда. "
"Вместе с ними ушли и Разумные - такова была их воля. "
"Там им будет хорошо. Они спасены. Ты очистил и изменил свой мир. "
"Мы ценим каждую крупицу Разума во Вселенной. Ты сделал правильный выбор. "
"Теперь Карман расскажет тебе, как избавить твой мир от корня безумия. "
"Любой раздельный Разум рано или поздно проходит через Испытание. "
"В недрах Разума появляется его маленькая часть, стремящаяся к разрушению окружающего мира. "
"Очень давно это произошло и c твоими прототипами, называвшими себя софти. "
"Кризис совпал с Прозрением - другим этапом в эволюции Разума. "
"Лучшая часть софти, назвавшаяся спиритами, вывела свой Разум на новую ступень. "
"Но некоторые из спиритов не смогли противостоять потрясению перед неизведанным и в их Разуме поселилось зло. "
"Они назвали себя наблюдателями. Они тщательно все продумали. "
"В их план входило уничтожение всех форм Разума своего мира и они этого почти добились. "
"Они уединились, ссылаясь на склонность к созерцанию бытия и пассивность перед природой. "
"Но на самом деле они действовали. Суп Существ был ими спланирован и осуществлен. "
"Им оставалось лишь подождать, когда Куклы постепенно уничтожат остатки Разума. "
"Наблюдатели не могут убивать сами - они изменили свою материальную природу чтобы пережить темное время. "
"Но они могут долго ждать - они победили время. Они смогли даже спрятаться от нашего взора. "
"До успешной реализации их плана осталось совсем немного, но они не предусмотрели одного - нашего вмешательства. "
"Благодаря тебе, Разумный, Куклы уничтожены и оставшийся от софти и криспо Разум на время спасен. "
"Но наблюдатели хитры и найдут способ до них добраться. "
"Поэтому ты должен идти до конца и избавить свой мир от них самих, иначе твой подвиг будет напрасен. "
"Механический Мессия, я вижу что твой носитель способен на Это. "
"Я, Карман, обучаю тебя новому умению.  "
"Мы не хотим никого полностью уничтожать - даже такое злое проявление Разума как наблюдатели. "
"Мы верим, что эту болезнь можно вылечить - но на это нужно время. Мы будем с ними долго разговаривать. "
"Мы кажется нашли путь полностью блокировать наблюдателей от внешнего мира. "
"Учти, что эта операция требует жертв - Механический Мессия уйдет от тебя вместе с ними навсегда. "
"Он будет охранять Разум от посягательств этой болезни. "
"Отторгнутые смогут спокойно эволюционировать. "
"Ты должен найти наблюдателей, активировать Механического Мессию и поместить его в самое сердце их логова. "
"Если Мессия почувствует их присутствие, наблюдателей окутает тьма. "
"После этого мы уже не сможем с тобой общаться без нашего проводника в твоем мире - без Механического Мессии. "
"Но мы не хотим бросать такой Подвижный Разум как ты - мы можем сотрудничать и очищать другие миры. "
"Единственный путь к нам для тебя лежит через родной мир софти. "
"Ключ к Коридору на него хранится в Спумии - наследии древних спиритов. "
"Спумия покоится там, где ты еще никогда не был. И не бойся умирать с ней. "
"Отправляйся в свой нелегкий путь. Твой мир в твоих руках. "
"Мы ждем тебя на Земле, ВАНГЕР!"
"Carmane senses the Mechanical Messiah. Halt and listen, carrier. "
"You've fulfilled the task! All Larvae have stopped their run and gone forever. "
"The Reasonable have left along with them as was their will. "
"They'll be happy there. They are saved. You've cleaned up and changed your world. "
"We value each and every grain of Reason in the Universe. You've made the right choice. Now Carmane will tell you how to rid the world of the root of the madness. Every individual Reason goes through the Ordeal sooner or later. In the depth of Reason its tiny spark appears, striving to destroy the surrounding world. Ages ago it happened to your prototypes, who called themselves the Softie. The Crisis coincided with Insight, another stage in the evolution of the Reason. The best of the Softie, who called themselves Spirits, had developed their Reason to a new level. Some of the Spirits were unable to resist the temptation of the new knowledge being offered, but with their augmented power came the corruption of their Reason. They called themselves the Spectators, and they thought everything out very carefully. Their plan envisaged the elimination of all kinds of Reason in their world, and they nearly achieved their aim. They withdrew from society pleading their inclination toward contemplating existence and their passive attitude toward nature. In fact, they were acting. The Creature Soup had been planned and executed by them. They only had to wait until the Larvae finished off all Reason bit by bit. The Spectors cannot kill, as they changed their matter to survive the dark ages. But they can wait for a very long time, as they have defeated time. They have even managed to hide away from our eyes. Little is left to be done for their plan to be successfully fulfilled. But they failed to envisage one important factor: our interference. Thanks to you, Mobile Reason, the Larvae are exterminated and the Reasonable remaining from the Softie and the Cryspo are saved for the time being. But the Spectors are shrewd and they are sure to find a way to reach them.  That is why you must go on and stop at nothing to rid the world of them, otherwise your feat will be wasted. Mechanical Messiah, I see that your carrier is capable of that. I, Carmane, am teaching you a new skill. We do not want to exterminate anybody completely, not even such an evil manifestation of the Reason as the Spectors. We believe that it is a curable disease, but it takes time to cure it. We are going to talk to them more and more.  We seem to have found the way to completely block the Spectors from the outer world.  Mind you, this operation requires a sacrifice: the Mechanical Messiah will leave you forever to stay with them.  It will guard the Reasonable against the attempts of this disease. The blocked Spectors will be able to develop at ease. You must find the Spectors, activate the Mechanical Messiah, and place it in the very heart of their den. When the Messiah senses them, the Spectors will be shrouded in darkness. After that we won't be able to communicate with you without the help of our guide in your world, The Mechanical Messiah. But we do not want to abandon such a Mobile Reason as you: we can continue our collaboration in cleaning up other worlds. The only way for you to reach us lies through the home world of the Softie.  The key to the Passage leading to it is kept in the Chomper, the legacy of the ancient Spirits. The Chomper rests where you have never been yet. Do not fear dying with it. Set off on your long and uneasy journey. Your world is in your hands. We await you on Earth, Vanger!"
"Now Carmane will tell you how to rid the world of the root of the madness. "
"Every individual Reason goes through the Ordeal sooner or later. "
"In the depth of Reason its tiny spark appears, striving to destroy the surrounding world. "
"Ages ago it happened to your prototypes, who called themselves the Softie. "
"The Crisis coincided with Insight, another stage in the evolution of the Reason. "
"The best of the Softie, who called themselves Spirits, had developed their Reason to a new level. "
"Some of the Spirits were unable to resist the temptation of the new knowledge being offered, but with their augmented power came the corruption of their Reason. "
"They called themselves the Spectators, and they thought everything out very carefully. "
"Their plan envisaged the elimination of all kinds of Reason in their world, and they nearly achieved their aim. "
"They withdrew from society pleading their inclination toward contemplating existence and their passive attitude toward nature. "
"In fact, they were acting. The Creature Soup had been planned and executed by them. "
"They only had to wait until the Larvae finished off all Reason bit by bit. "
"The Spectors cannot kill, as they changed their matter to survive the dark ages. "
"But they can wait for a very long time, as they have defeated time. They have even managed to hide away from our eyes. "
"Little is left to be done for their plan to be successfully fulfilled. But they failed to envisage one important factor: our interference. "
"Thanks to you, Mobile Reason, the Larvae are exterminated and the Reasonable remaining from the Softie and the Cryspo are saved for the time being. "
"But the Spectors are shrewd and they are sure to find a way to reach them.  "
"That is why you must go on and stop at nothing to rid the world of them, otherwise your feat will be wasted. "
"Mechanical Messiah, I see that your carrier is capable of that."
"I, Carmane, am teaching you a new skill. "
"We do not want to exterminate anybody completely, not even such an evil manifestation of the Reason as the Spectors. "
"We believe that it is a curable disease, but it takes time to cure it. We are going to talk to them more and more.  "
"We seem to have found the way to completely block the Spectors from the outer world.  "
"Mind you, this operation requires a sacrifice: the Mechanical Messiah will leave you forever to stay with them.  "
"It will guard the Reasonable against the attempts of this disease. "
"The blocked Spectors will be able to develop at ease. "
"You must find the Spectors, activate the Mechanical Messiah, and place it in the very heart of their den. "
"When the Messiah senses them, the Spectors will be shrouded in darkness. "
"After that we won't be able to communicate with you without the help of our guide in your world, The Mechanical Messiah. "
"But we do not want to abandon such a Mobile Reason as you: we can continue our collaboration in cleaning up other worlds. "
"The only way for you to reach us lies through the home world of the Softie.  "
"The key to the Passage leading to it is kept in the Chomper, the legacy of the ancient Spirits. "
"The Chomper rests where you have never been yet. Do not fear dying with it. "
"Set off on your long and uneasy journey. Your world is in your hands. "
"We await you on Earth, Vanger!"
{Механический Мессия} {Карман} {Куклы} {наблюдатели} {Суп Существ} {софти} {криспо}
{Mechanical Messiah} {Carmane} {Larvae} {The Spectors} {The Creature Soup} {The Softie} {The Cryspo}

[Spobs Killing Waiting]
"Карман снова чувствует Механического Мессию. "
"Подвижный Разум, неужели ты все еще не нашел наблюдателей? "
"Не ошиблись ли мы в тебе? "
"Механический Мессия следит за тобой. Не заставляй нас волноваться. "
"Механический Мессия готов разделить Вечность с наблюдателями. "
"Привези его к ним и оставь там активированным. "
"Затем найди Спумию. Она приведет тебя к нам. Разум поможет Разуму. "
"Сделай последний шаг к своему будущему."
"Carmane senses the Mechanical Messiah again. "
"Mobile Reason, have you found the Spectors yet? "
"We weren't mistaken about you, were we? "
"The Mechanical Messiah is following you. Don't give us cause for worry. "
"The Mechanical Messiah is prepared to share Eternity with the Spectors. "
"Take it to them and leave it there activated. "
"Then find Chomper. It will lead you to us. Reason will help Reason. "
"Take the last step toward your future."
{Карман} {Механический Мессия} {наблюдатели} {Спумия}
{Carmane} {Mechanical Messiah} {The Spectors} {Chomper}

[Thunders!]
"С.И.Г.Н.А.Л.К.О.Р.Р.Е.К.Ц.И.Я.П.О.М.Е.Х.И....... "
"М.Е.Х.А.Н.И...С.С.И.Я...О.Ш.И.Б.К.А.П.Р.О.Ц...Щ.Е.Н... "
"М.О.Д.Е.Л.И.Р.О...В.С.Е.Л.Е.Н.Н.О.Й.О.С.Т.А.Н.О.В...!"
"S. I. G. N. A. L. C. O. R. R. E. C. T. I. O. N. I. N. T. E. R. F. E. R. E. N. C. E...... "
"M. E. C. H. A. N. I... S. S. I. A. H... F. A. U. L. T. P. R. O. C... T. E. D... "
"S. I. M. U. L. A. T. I... U. N. I. V. E. R. S... H. A. L. T...!"

